Anything like that, if somebody wants you to do it,
you ought to be willing to do it a little. And so I
told them I'd take it for one term. Well, at the end
of one term, I had turned it over, but I turned it
over to go into World War II. Because, as you see in
there, I was a busy man between two wars. What did
you do during the Second World War? Inspected
kitchens. I went to, I'd gone to Fort Sill, First
World War. They had sent a lot of people out of the, I
was in the Mississippi New Regiment. It was
regiment, New Artillery Regiment from Louisiana
and then from Arkansas.
Most of it went there, had no military experience,
and none whatsoever in artillery. They were, it
was a regiment in all three states where the
governor said to a friend, you've got a, you're a
lieutenant colonel over here in this infantry
outfit, go over here, I'll make you a colonel. But
he was an infantryman. Same thing happened in
Arkansas that did in Mississippi and Louisiana.
They didn't have any, they didn't have any
artillerymen.
They had people who were foot soldiers that had had
any military training, and they didn't want to
learn anything else. After we were federalized,
we met at Clinton, and we stayed over there a few
weeks, where we drilled, and just in infantry
stuff, but I had some artillery books I was
studying. And then they got us over to Jackson
where they assembled this Mississippi regiment.
We stayed there for, oh, two months, I guess. We
paraded every afternoon. These infantrymen were
the people from Jackson who'd come out there and
see us parade. We'd pass and review, pass and
review, pass and review, march and march and
march. When we weren't... standing still, we were
marching and when we weren't moving, if there was a
train on the track, we just marched in place. We
just marched. And we're pretty good paraders now,
but we didn't know a three, we'd never seen a 75 and
there wasn't but one three-inch battery, the old
Washington artillery of the world, of
Confederacy was the only battery we had and it just
shot all over the lot. It was loose. One, one, one
battery for a whole brigade now. For about a month
or two. And then, and then they sent the majors on
out there and they busted all of them. Then they
sent a capital two and none of them came back. I mean
for the whole brigade now. Well, I don't know. I
don't think I volunteered, but I guess I did too
much talking. And so they sent me. And by golly, I
thought I was going to bust out short because it was
tough. It was fast. Every Saturday we had about
four or five examinations, 30 minutes. You had to
pass it off. You had to answer a whole lot and write
and it had to be fast. Well, I'm sure I didn't do too
darn well because every single Sunday morning for
about six weeks I always went down to look at the
casualty list. They published the casualty list.
Those that failed, on the exams the previous
Saturday morning. That was published Sunday
morning with orders to proceed back to your
outfit. Well, when you got back to your outfit, you
were b-boarded,
which meant give up your commission. And I'd have
been drafted. And I, oh Lord, I was, I'd say under
pressure. I didn't think I was any better than some
of the others that were flunking. But thank
goodness I made it. After ten weeks I knew I had it
made. After six weeks of the ten I knew I had it made.
Well I got back to the brigade, the first one from
the three regiments that passed that school of
fire. And the old general over there, he didn't
know any more about artillery than anybody else
because he's real old timer and artillery was
getting to be a little more technical. You had to
know some trigonometry and had to be able to figure
out how you could hit something over there and
you're over here and you're looking over yonder.
And well, I got back and was the first one. And this
old general, he was an old boy, didn't know modern
stuff. He said, I just don't know anything about
that damn school, but I know it's just running my
outfit. And I want you to start a school. And I was
his school officer for the balance of the war. And
we had a school there and I tried to teach them as
much as I could in the time. But then after I'd been
on that a few weeks, he got orders to send a group of
people over to France, the head of the division,
the head of the brigade, to go to this French school
to learn about the French 75 and the 155. And I had a
first sergeant from every battery, three
regiments now, Mississippi, Arkansas,
Louisiana. I had a first sergeant from every
outfit. I had a second lieutenant from every
outfit. And he was supposed to be a bright young man
that had maybe been through the French school over
at, what you call it, and then it'd come back.
And so I had all that bunch of people. We went
overseas and I remember when we landed at Lahore we
could hear the front, the big guns. That's as near
as I ever got to firing or receiving any fire in
anger.
So I took this bunch of young officers to this
school, Equiquidon, that's in Brittany. French
school, artillery school. We went through that
artillery school and when our regiments came over
there, these officers, there were two to every
batterer plus me. And so we were ready then to teach
our people stuff. Then we
went and fired and then we went firing and we went.
We had 70 rounds in our battalion at 11 o'clock on
November 11th. Armistice Day when we got the word
the truce was signed. And I gave one command. It was
a standing barrage that we shot 70 rounds. That's
the way we celebrated the armistice. We were just
finishing that morning, that day. At 11 o'clock,
we shot those 500 rounds. And then there we were.
There's the war over, and we finished the day on our
train. Well, what are they going to do now? Can't
send everybody, two million people back home the
same day. And so they give, I don't know what
happened to the other three regiments. I don't
know what happened to the regiment from Louisiana
or the regiment from Arkansas. But the regiment
from Mississippi was sent to Valdehan, Valdon,
the way they pronounce it, up near the Swiss
border, where there was a specialized French
school. on artillery and I mean the arranges and
things like that for it. We were sent over there and
the old general always had me for his, he always
made me on every dog gun, I was summer court martial
and a member of a special court and one time I was on a
general court martial at different places. But we
stayed at Valadol until we got home in July of the
next summer. firing for that school. Because they
kept an army of occupation. They wanted to offer me
a job. I was a major, but I'd have to go back as a
captain in the regular army. But I didn't think I
wanted to be in the army in peacetime. And I wasn't
in the army in peacetime until the Second World War
came along. And I didn't have to go then. But they
asked me, to report to Fort Sill on August the 4th,
ever when it was, and I did. And I got up there and
went through the basic course, and I went through
the field officer's course. There were seven of
us. Probably, they called us the Eagle Squadron,
because we had a bird on our shoulders, you see.
They don't know what to do with us, because we're
too old to go over. Or if we weren't, we would be in a
few months. I got to be, I was too old to go over,
because I was already 52. And you couldn't go over
unless you were a general officer. They'd take you
more than over 52, but that was the cutoff age. And
those people, those people, I was just more or less
in their way. And we stayed up there though for a
good many weeks at Fort Sill, heading boards,
investigation boards, and that was all right. And
then we were on the board that would approve an
enlisted man who wanted to go to officer's
training camp, and that was all right. And one
time, a boy whose daddy was, the engineer prof
here, and I was at this time, he was in school now,
I'm back down yonder in the athletic field. No,
that's what I was a commandant.
No, I guess I'd given up the commandant's job. But
at least I'm the oldest of this colonel bunch. And
as a result, I'm the chairman of this little thing.
this little committee. And here comes a boy into
that thing and when he saw me his eyes popped. He was
a member of my golf team at A&M College. Just before
I left here, my other stuff out there, I was just
coaching the golf team for the fun of it. And they
taught me a lot of golf. I didn't know any golf. But
at least I took them on trips and everything like
that. And old Foraker, He's been offered the
presidency of this school a number of times and
turns it down. He's a big man up at Harvard right
now. He walked into that thing, because I
recognized him and he recognized me. And I said, oh
boy, I'm glad to see you. But you don't have to
worry. Because you got it made. You just go back and
tell them that we're going to give you a favorable
report. I didn't even talk to these other officers
that are on this committee. And then I'd explain to
them just who this boy is and what I know about him
and what I know about his daddy. And just a fine
engineer. And he's up at Harvard. He's had a chance
to come here as president. That was a fun little
story. I was wondering about the changes in the
Southwest Conference. How's that? The changes in
the Southwest Conference. Have there been major
changes in the Southwest Conference, do you
think?
I think the Southwest Conference, Of course, the
coaching profession has progressed a long, long
way. Yeah, could you talk about that? And it
progressed when the ex-bible came here. We had an
old man by the name of Charlie Moran, famous,
famous old boy. He coached Center College to a
national championship. You ever heard about
that? No. Well, they beat Harvard and Harvard was
the best team in the east and the center beat them
and everybody else that played. They went out and
beat a composite team out on the west coast at a
Christmas game after winning everything over
here. Then they made a mistake of coming back to
Dallas and playing Texas A&M on New Year's Day and
we beat them. and that then gave us the claim to
national championship because that's what they
were and we beat them. Now,
D. X. Bible was the new school.
The man that went to
Wallace Wade was the man that was at that little
Tennessee prep school in the Desjardins County.
Wallace Wade. He coached at Alabama when our
present coach was there. He played for Wallace
Wade. And Wallace Wade went from there to
Vanderbilt, and then he went to Duke where he
stayed, I guess, until he quit. He and Bob were the
two young coaches that were together in those
adjoining counties in Tennessee. Tennessee in
those days had very few high schools, but they had
some fine prep schools that had just run by a man who
had a staff and a building, and he had a prep school.
So those were two prep schools.
Brandon at Shelbyville, Tennessee, and the other
over at Tallahoma. Now, what did, now... You were
talking about the changes in the Southwest
Conference. The change was that people started to
recruiting. I see. We took boys that came here. D.
X. Bobble and I, we'd never had an automobile in
1922, the spring of 22. We stayed here until the
final parade. And then we got onto a little old car
that we bought for $600 and headed for the west
coast. We were both Shriners and they were having
the Shrine Convention in San Francisco and so we
decided to go to it. We'd never been anywhere, we
never had a car or anything like that, but we
started out and we made it in seven days. And then we
went up the coast. Went to the convention after we
had already gone down to Mexico and on up the coast
to San Francisco. Then we came back through Patajo
and Winnemucca and that's in Nevada and then Salt
Lake and then we came around through Colorado and
came on home. Stayed here about three days. three
or four days just to kind of see how things were
coming along. Then we head out for Tennessee. He
lives a little above Knoxville and I live on the
other side of Knoxville. We got to Nashville and
there's a railroad that went from there straight
to Knoxville, Tennessee Central. It doesn't run
now, but it did then. He caught the train home. I
gave him $250 for his part of the car. Drove it in. We
had seven fairs between, I had seven fairs between
here and Sparta, Tennessee. Six of them. Didn't
have many roads, but we didn't stay here and
recruit. We came here just to be here in time school
started. I never did get here until maybe two days
before school started every year. Never thought
we were trying to recruit anybody. But these other
teams got ahead of us while we were coasting along.
And D-X was doing just better than anybody under
the old deal. But the track wasn't doing too much.
Baseball and basketball and everything like that
didn't matter, don't matter now to a lot of people.
Football had just got so big. But they're going to
build us a new stadium. That is, they'll put up some
steel bleachers or something and move the track
right west of the baseball field. You know where
I'm talking about now. I read in the paper
yesterday about where they're going to build
three new intramural fields over there and the
track. I have another question. During the 1960s,
after you retired, A&M of course let women in and
they also stopped the mandatory corps. So people
did not have to join the corps of cadets. I was
wondering what you thought of those changes. I
love the corps. I love that uniform. I've put more
in that uniform than many people. I've had two wars
in it. I love this corps. But I didn't like the
initiation of this perpetual four-year
fraternity life that was driving the other people
off and choking the school to death, and nobody's
doing anything about it. I'm the individual that
challenged this thing and started this ball
rolling. And Gib Gilchrist, my very close friend,
was here when I was doing it, and he wanted to do what
I... was doing. He was a Texas University man and I
don't believe that there ever been an A&M man to do
what I did or what he did. Somebody had to come in
here from somebody else. And not a silly thing,
chasing them off with bore every Friday night once
a year, was not a silly thing. to do the things they
do to carol from Ann's Barn or take anybody's
woodpile or just do anything they wanted to do.
Wasn't it a silly thing to make freshmen wait on
you? Here's another thing they did. Dean Bolton
was a very conservative man. He was in charge of the
Blue Book. The Blue Book was the rules that the
faculty and the board of directors had adopted to
take care of discipline and other things in this
college.
I went to,
I guess after the first term in that chair, I went to
Bing Bolton and I said, Bing Bolton, there's not
any use in them keeping those freshmen in a cage,
they make them stay right there in the dormitory.
They're in the last class. They can't go to Brown.
They can't do anything. They have to stay there so
they can wait on the upperclassmen. I said, now
listen, Dean, let's you and I change that thing.
After a man has passed his December the 10th
testing age, and he's passing all of his work, Dean
Bolton, Let's make those people give those boys a
little bit of privilege. Oh, Mr. Edison, let's
just let it alone. Let's just let it alone. All
right, we let it alone. Next fall, I didn't ask Dean
Bolton anything. I just got out an order. From now
on out, when that freshman's last class is over
with, he's a free man to call to quarters. He can go
to town if he wants to. That's revolutionary.
Nobody says I can't do it. The student body doesn't
like it at all. But there wasn't anybody there with
enough guts to say you can't do that. I forced stuff
on this college.
I've never told anybody that. But I did force that
on the senior class. You cannot keep this boy in
quarters just to be there to run your errands and do
your stuff. He's a free man if he's passing his
grades on December the 10th. I was a reasonable
person. I cooperated when I was sensible to
cooperate and tried to get a job done that I felt
like should be done by somebody.
Oh, maybe.
And they weren't too hard to handle. They gave that
paddle up, just about gave that paddle up. I don't
say that they didn't do it after I left. I don't
know. I know that they'd better not do too much of it
because Gilchrist wouldn't fool with them. He
just accepted their resignation and said, we can
get along without you.
And they hadn't done anything to do but swallow it.
I accept your resignation, but you can take the job
back if you want it. But by golly, I ain't on my
terms. That's what he said. That's what he did. And
then they, but they forced us to go further than
that. They forced us to go to the state. I went over
there with him. And the committee from both houses
there asked us questions.
and they told the people over here what was what.
Of course, the darn Korean War
just about ruined military in this country.
Well, it was a damn full war. They shouldn't have
never gone over there. I used to write Teague every
so often and plead with him, Teague, stand on your
feet and tell these people over there that they
should have never landed a single man on the
continent of Asia with a rifle in his hand. If you
want to fight those boys, you've got to be mean
enough to blow them off the face of the earth and
have it over with. If you don't want to do that, then
I couldn't get him to do that either. But we made a
terrible mistake going over there. You can't
fight, they're a bunch of red ants. You kill 10 to
our one, pretty soon we run out of people. And
besides, they fought in the bushes. They never did
get out and fight like an army. We made a horrible
mistake and just ruined their military As far as
popularity with the people concerned, they just,
everybody had to be against that war. Except the
people that got it started and couldn't quit.
Until they finally did. Oh, we're just talking
about a lot of the stuff that I have lived through.
Had a good time, fine place, wouldn't change it for
anything in the world. Good wife, good boys,
wonderful boys, two fine sons. Both of them, Rusty
and my doctor son lives right over there. He lives
in Brown, we live in College Station. Right there
are those trees that I built up and planted some
time ago. there between us, that's all. He was in
Arabia last, came back ten days ago. They had him
come over there for thirty days. He's an eye
specialist. And transplant some corneas and take
out some
lumps out of the eye, what is it, when you have
cataracts, yeah. Well he did that for thirty days.
just to see what it's like. They paid him well. He's
just back from it. He came back walking home with
one of those dirt long robes over and a thing over
his head and a little ring around the top the other
day. And the other boy, the other boy stayed here
for a couple of years and then he went to Annapolis.
And he was the top man up there. He was the brigade
captain his senior year and that same cadet
colonel here. So I'm very proud of him. He didn't
stay in the Air Force or the Navy. I heard he stayed
in there eight years, and then he decided his wife
didn't like the service. He liked it all right, but
his wife didn't, so he decided just go into
business. He's with the Southland Corporation up
in Dallas. He does a good job. We had both of them and
their families in there for food yesterday,
Saturday, Sunday at noon. get them together and we
got two fine sons. We sure like them. Sure like
them. Sure proud of them.
What do you think of the future of Texas A&M? What do
you think of the future of Texas A&M? But listen,
there's one other thing I want to say. There's a
picture of the man that decided that they needed a
marker down there on the track. old Pat Olson,
Helen standing right there by him. She was the
mother and sponsor of that track team all during
the years. I don't think I'd ever got too far
without her because she just, she just was just
nice to those kids and they liked her. She'd feed
them when the year was over and she'd be with them on
the bus wherever they'd go, here, there, and
yonder. and she's just a great gal.
But the,
I guess
I'm a little bit unique in the fact that I just never
did leave the place, and in athletics.
Never did, never was fired except I quit. For a few
hours. And there was fire, never did quit. That's
pretty good for a coach. No kidding. That's an
accomplishment in itself. Well thanks a lot for
this interview. We'll have it typed up for you.